Nic review - part 2 (#135)
scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D: draft-dekater-scion-pki.md

Author: > if these attributes are set and support for them is missing, implementations SHOULD error out. 

What does "error out" mean? Reject the certificate? If so, this clashes with the  earlier MAY: an implementation would reject a cert with an attribute that we say is optional.

P.S.: This wording was introduced in a very early [draft version](https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/commit/6db6cc71211767996eac23814968bef0d3368d03#diff-46a3cbbb8fca7cc808ffd598a474834aeef4be1c1364b16a354475c27c499dacL603) and it comes straight from [docs](https://docs.scion.org/en/latest/cryptography/certificates.html#authority-key-identifier-extension), I believe we should revise it.

Author: What is a voting-only certificate?  And these two sentences seem conflicting:
> Voting AS and issuing CA certificates MUST include the `ISD-AS number` attribute

> Voting-only certificates are not required to include the `ISD-AS number` attribute 

The first sentence was introduced [here](https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/commit/a4fa4628a2b9eadbc0e88053431dc884c0ad86a6), specifically in https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/pull/108/changes/b4624299438c05c18c86e5f6748738691acf7e56

Author: This topic was discussed in [Slack](https://scionproto.slack.com/archives/C8ADA9CEP/p1740057439410749)

Author: I reworded this section following Dominik's clarification.

| Sensitive voting cert. | C<sub>sens</sub>  | SK<sub>sens</sub>                        | PK<sub>sens</sub>                                       | 5 years      |
| Regular voting cert.   | C<sub>reg</sub>   | SK<sub>reg</sub>                         | PK<sub>reg</sub>                                        | 5 years      |
| CP root certificate    | C<sub>root</sub>  | SK<sub>root</sub>                        | PK<sub>root</sub>                                       | 5 years      |
| CP issuing CA certificate      | C<sub>CA</sub>    | SK<sub>root</sub>                        | PK<sub>CA</sub>                                 | 15 days (3)  |
| CP AS certificate      | C<sub>AS</sub>    | SK<sub>CA</sub>                          | PK<sub>AS</sub>                                         | 3 days       |
{: #table-3 title="Certificates"}

(1) Multiple signatures and certificates of each type MAY be included in a TRC.<br>
(2) Recommended maximum validity period. Note that initial AS certificates may have a longer validity (e.g. 10-30 days) to allow for enough time for deployment.<br>

> (3) A validity of 15 days with 4 days overlap between two issuing CA certificates is RECOMMENDED to enable the best possible operational procedures when performing a issuing CA certificate rollover.

Reviewer: > A validity of 15 days with 4 days overlap

What we do in practice is to create a new intermediate CA every Monday at the same time, hence the overlap is 8(?) days.

Author: Ok changed to 8 days [f52cbdb](https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/pull/135/commits/f52cbdb3fff6e46cf86d3363a3b67bb092c04d49)

The `id-at-ia` attribute identifies the SCION ISD and AS numbers. Its object identifier is defined in [](#cert-asn1).

The `id-at-ia` attribute MUST be included in the `issuer` and `subject` fields of root, issuing CA, and AS certificates. It SHOULD be included in voting certificates.

> In issuing CA certificates, the presence of this attribute ensures that the Control Plane can identify from which AS to retrieve the intermediate CA certificate, thereby avoiding circular dependencies.

Reviewer: > In issuing CA certificates, the presence of this attribute ensures that the Control Plane can identify from which AS to retrieve the intermediate CA certificate, thereby avoiding circular dependencies.

That sentence does not make any sense IMO, and should be dropped.

Author: This sentence is meant to explain the reason why you MUST include the ISD-AS attribute sometimes. The reason is to let relying parties discover where to go and fetch the right certificate (therefore avoiding circular dependencies with cryptography). I agree that the old wording is weird. How about something like: 
```suggestion
The presence of this attribute allows relying parties to identify the AS that operates the issuing CA, facilitating the discovery and retrieval of the intermediate CA certificate during chain validation.
```

Let me know what you think @oncilla. I don't think this is absolutely necessary, so if you  are still not convinced, I'll drop the sentence.

### `authorityKeyIdentifier` Extension

The `authorityKeyIdentifier` extension identifies the public key corresponding to the private key used to sign a certificate. For its syntax and definition, see {{RFC5280}}, section 4.2.1.1, and {{X.509}}, clause 9.2.2.1.

To ensure deterministic matching, the authorityKeyIdentifier attributes are strictly restricted:

- `keyIdentifier`: MUST be included.

> - `authorityCertIssuer` & `authorityCertSerialNumber`: MUST NOT be included. Implementations MUST return an error if either is present.

Author: As far as I understand, using `authorityCertIssuer` & `authorityCertSerialNumber` is not supported in scionproto. If I'm right, then the old wording was incorrect. I therefore reworded to mention that implementations MUST only use `keyIdentifier` 
Correct @oncilla? 

I realized this section was weird because of this old wording:

> if these attributes are set and support for them is missing, implementations SHOULD error out. 

What does "error out" mean? Reject the certificate? If so, this clashes with the  earlier MAY: an implementation would reject a cert with an attribute that we say is optional.

P.S.: This wording was introduced in a very early [draft version](https://github.com/scionassociation/scion-cppki_I-D/commit/6db6cc71211767996eac23814968bef0d3368d03#diff-46a3cbbb8fca7cc808ffd598a474834aeef4be1c1364b16a354475c27c499dacL603) and it comes straight from [docs](https://docs.scion.org/en/latest/cryptography/certificates.html#authority-key-identifier-extension), this is why I think we have to change wording.

Reviewer: > As far as I understand, using authorityCertIssuer & authorityCertSerialNumber is not supported in scionproto.

I don't think this is true, no.

While we will never generate the authorityCertIssuer/authorityCertSerialNumber in with the Go code (I cannot attest to the libc implementation, but unlikely they would), the code is still able to deal with certificate chains that have this set without a authorityKeyIdentifier. Essentially, the verification code ignores these paramaters and searches for potential parent certificates:

For reference: https://github.com/golang/go/blob/922abf576dfcd6e836a936b5fcc636e9e572b591/src/crypto/x509/cert_pool.go#L153-L155

So, we can add this additional restriction (which also is pretty in-line with WebPKI), but currently it is not enforced. We would need to tighten down the verification logic.

Author: So you are fine with the current wording, right? 
<img width="509" height="360" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-22 at 15 41 25" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bb25aca2-a847-4d1c-bfc0-8c4cf4288b00" />

Author: I see you wrote in #149: 

> As also mentioned elsewhere, currently this is not enforced by our implementation. I am fine however to add this, as we are not setting these fields in our current implementations.

### `votes` {#votes}

> The `votes` field contains a sequence of indices referencing the voting certificates in the predecessor TRC. If index i is part of the `votes` field, then the voting certificate at position i in the `certificates` sequence of the predecessor TRC casted a vote on the successor TRC. The index is 0-based, meaning that 0 represents the first element. For more information on the `certificates` sequence, see [](#cert).

Author: I feel this was not clear in the earlier text.  @oncilla Looks good?

Reviewer: WFM.
